---
layout: post
title: "Wacken: A North American Survival Guide"
comments: true
categories: music
tags: [metal, music]
---

There are a lot of festival survival guides out there on the vast 
interwebs already. However, after having just come back from the
Wacken 25 year anniversery -- there are a few things from a backpackers
perspective I wish I had known going into it.

#####Noise

Bring a MP3 player, just for sleeping. There are a lot of non-metalheads
at Wacken who just want to drink and party. They'll be listening to schlager
songs, techno, rap and other things at extremely loud volumes. I would recommend
getting a set of in-ear isolation headphones to listen to while you're trying
to sleep. Maybe some -40db ear plugs just for nighttime would do the trick as 
well (I had just brought some earsonics, and they were not enough to drown out
the noise at night).

Alternatively, be prepared to drink until you pass out. Repeat Monday -> Sunday.

#####Heat

Coming from Nova Scotia, Wacken felt like a desert. Bring something to setup to
get yourself out of the sun. The tents will be too warm, and it's vital to not
be sitting under that sun all day. (Alternatively, rain).

#####Dust (Alternatively Mud)

A bandanda to breathe thru when it's super dry out. I didn't see this mentioned
on any of the other writeups, but I think it's very vital. There are a lot of
smokers at Wacken as well, and the cigerattes they sell on site are equivilant to
dirty bag smokes. Breathing in the fumes from other people is somewhat sickening,
and a bandanda goes a long way to filtering that stuff out before it hits you.


### Perspective

Europian crowds are quite different from the ones I've experianced in
North America. The people there really like their personal space, and it
seems like a large majority of people at the festival are not really there
for the band, but for the experiance itself. It was extremely easy to get
to the front bars for bands such as Motorhead and Emperor.

The crowds are even spread out enough there are dudes with kegs on their
backs walking around selling beer in the front rows... those dudes would be
killed at a show here in Halifax.

### Final Thoughts

One final protip: Clean your house and especially have clean sheets / a 
made bed ready for when you come home. You will be tired, jetlegged, and
probably still dirty from Wacken. A shower into passing the hell out into
clean sheets is just wonderful.
